{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}
{\f55\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f56\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f58\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f59\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f60\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\qr\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \fs28\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 3;}{\s6\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel5\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Paul Spencer}{\author spencepd}
{\operator spencepd}{\creatim\yr1997\mo11\dy11\hr11\min38}{\revtim\yr1997\mo11\dy11\hr11\min38}{\printim\yr1997\mo10\dy28\hr11\min48}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords502}{\nofchars2867}{\*\company Miami University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s6\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel5\adjustright \cgrid {Paul Spencer
\par Lab Partner: Dan Duffley
\par }\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 PHY 293
\par Paramagnetic Susceptibility of a Single Crystal Ruby
\par 10/28/97
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par To study a how an isolated spin responds to a magnetic field and how it is related to the temperature.  To determine the influence of the electron spin to energy and to measure the two lowest energy states without the influence of a magnetic field.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \fs28\ul\cgrid {\page Introduction}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab Electrons can experience magnetic moments through an implied magnetic field, which in turn is associated with its spin. 
 There are only two energy states for an isolated electron in a magnetic field.  These states correspond to the magnetic moment\rquote s alignment to the magnetic field, which can be parallel or anti-parallel.  In addition to the electron\rquote 
s spin there is an orbital angular momentum.  The vector sum of the spin and angular momentum of an atom\rquote s electrons give the atom its magnetic moment.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par Equation 1)\tab \tab \tab U = }{\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 109 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  * }{\b\fs24 H}{\fs24 
\par 
\par Where }{\b\i\fs24 U}{\fs24  is the potential energy, }{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 109 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  is the magnetic moment, and }{\b\i\fs24 H}{\fs24 
 is the magnetic field.  A system of magnetic moments, which align parallel to a magnetic field and do not affect each other, has a value of }{\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24 
.  This value is the magnetic susceptibility and is called paramagnetic when it is small and positive.
\par 
\par Equation 2)\tab \tab \tab M = }{\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  H
\par 
\par Where }{\b\i\fs24 M}{\fs24  is the total magnetic moment per unit volume and }{\b\i\fs24 H}{\fs24  is the magnetic field.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \fs28\ul\cgrid {Experimental Procedure}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \cgrid {\tab To measure the magnetic susceptibility of ruby 
the temperature of the crystal should be relatively low in order to ensure that most of the electrons are in their lowest energy state.  The following formula shows the temperature dependence of }{\b\i {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol"
 \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ and is quoted from the Curie-Weiss law.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {Equation 3)\tab \tab \tab }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ = C / (T - }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 81 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{)
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par Where }{\b\i\fs24 C}{\fs24  is the Curie constant, }{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 81 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  is the Weiss constant, and }{\b\i\fs24 T}{\fs24  is the temperature.
\par \tab The experiment will actually be a simulation
 of carrying a voltage across a ruby, in order to create a voltage difference.  A GW-BASIC program will actually simulate the experiment and generate the voltage drop across the potentiometer.  The potentiometer was the original device used to determine t
he voltage drop.  Once the voltage difference is set to }{\i\fs24 zero}{\fs24  then the data can be interpreted by the computer.  The data found will be the ruby susceptibility and the corresponding sample temperature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \fs28\ul\cgrid {Results}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab 
\par \tab The data collected from the ruby experiment was input into a computer program.  These values were stored into a file and then loaded into QUATRO PRO.  The represented values were }{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt
\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  and }{\b\i\fs24 T}{\fs24  and then were graphed as a plot of }{\b\i\fs24 T}{\fs24  vs. 1/}{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 99 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24 
.  A regression test was put on the data and a best fit line was then found to produce the graph on the spreadsheet printout.  The value of }{\b\i\fs24 C}{\fs24  calculated from the spreadsheet was 9.43E10}{\fs24\super -3}{\fs24  K and }{\b\i\fs24 
{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 81 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24   was the constant 1.30E10}{\fs24\super -1}{\fs24  K.
\par \tab The fitting of a cubic 1/}{\b\i\fs24 T}{\fs24  was done by a program called Polyfit.  This program produced the coefficients of 1/}{\b\i\fs24 T}{\fs24  for cubic powers.  These values can be seen on A-2.  In order to find the value of }{\b\i\fs24 
{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 100 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24  the following equation was used.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \cgrid {Equation 4)\tab \tab \tab }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 81 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ = 2}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 100 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ / 5k
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par Where }{\b\i\fs24 k}{\fs24  is the Boltzmann constant.  With the result of }{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 81 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24 , }{\b\i\fs24 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 100 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{\fs24 
 was found to be 4.49E10}{\fs24\super -24}{\fs24 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \fs28\ul\cgrid {Discussion}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab Many of the values found above could be wrong.  I was unable to clearly understand the significance of the }{\b\i {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 100 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ in relatio
n to any of the other variables we had determined in the spreadsheet.  As far as the experiment itself it was straight forward and easy to conceptualize what was happening.  However, I lost most of my understanding after creating the best-fit line graph.

\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par 
\par }}